Links to Suppliers:

http://www.discoveryorganics.ca/

In business since 1999, Discovery Organics is an independently 
owned Canadian distributor of Certified Organic and Fair Trade produce.

We passionately work to promote Certified Organic and Fair Trade 
by building relationships with small scale farmers here in B.C. 
as well as through Latin America.

We serve hundreds of customers, including natural food retailers 
and wholesalers across Western Canada and the Canadian North.

http://www.vanwhole-produce.com/

As Western Canada’s leading produce wholesaler, 
with a network of over 600 growers from 40 countries, 
Van-Whole Produce brings over 400 varieties of fresh produce 
to more than 1,300 produce markets in Canada. Personalized attention, 
value-added services, and the highest possible commitment to the 
quality of its produce have been the focus since Van-Whole opened 
in 1984.

http://www.dan-d-pak.com/

We're a manufacturer and distributor of fine foods. 
Our portfolio includes more than 2,000 SKUs, including nuts, 
dried fruits, trail mixes, crunchy snacks, grains and cereals and many, 
many, more. We source our ingredients from around the globe and 
transform them into high quality, value added products that we proudly 
market under 3 sub-brands: Dan-D-Pak™, Dan-D-Bulk™ and Dan-D-Organic™.

http://dovreimport.com/

We bring the finest gourmet specialties from around the globe and around the corner. 
We look for the best producers, using the finest ingredients, 
quality standards and sustainable packaging. Our customers know 
they can expect products that they are proud to sell and enjoy at 
their own dinner table.


http://bosafoods.com/

We import the finest quality Italian Specialty Foods; 
everything from olives and olive oil to seasonal treats and spices.


http://www.horizondistributors.com/

Established in 1976, Horizon is Western Canada’s leading distributor 
of organic and natural products. Horizon is known for dedication to 
logistical excellence, personalized account service, a consistent 95% 
or better fill rate, and commitment to integrity in product selection. 
Horizon is the supplier of major natural, grocery and independent grocery chains, 
independent health food stores, buying clubs, restaurants, cafés and specialty 
retailers via a fleet of trucks and common carriers.

https://www.jivaorganics.ca/

Jiva Organics is a leading business-to-business distributor of 
certified organic, kosher, vegetarian & healthy foods based in 
Burnaby, British Columbia.
From organic granola to non-dairy beverages, 
we offer an extensive range of natural shelf stable and bulk food; 
including our two made-in house Canada brands, 
Everland Natural Foods & New World Foods

http://www.leftcoastnaturals.com/

Left Coast Naturals is an organic and natural food manufacturer and distributor 
based in Burnaby, British Columbia and is the first distributor in North America 
to have a formal Non-GMO Policy. We distribute nearly 30 brands, 200 bulk foods, 
and two brands of our own - Hippie Foods and Left Coast Bulk Foods - to grocery, 
specialty, and natural food stores across Western Canada.

Specials:

itrgjreojgoierjgioer


