2.   Deliverables and Details  

2.1 9 Web Sites in total are required from 9 different domains as listed below. 

Web Sites – Similar sites to your site, re: similar business nature o Links to 3 web sites 
similar to the site you are planning to build for the Company.  
Describe what you like or don’t like about each site in 2 sentences.  
Web Sites – Downloadable Sites o Links to 3 sites from which you can download free components 
for use in your project web site for the Company (i.e., graphics, sound files, ActiveX, tools, etc).  
Give a onesentence introduction to each site. ? Web Sites – Technical Information o Links to 3 sites 
for authoritative technical information on technologies you’ll be using for the project web site you
build for the Company. (i.e., HTML, JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheets, etc.).  
They should include at least one newsgroup.  
Include a one-sentence introduction to each site. 
Note:  A total of 9 sites are requested from 9 different domain names 
 
2.2  Cross Reference Page  

At the completion of the project, you will be asked to present a web page that links to all requirements 
to aid in the marking of your web site.  Now is a good time to begin that page by creating a list of all 
requirements and when completed, link the text to the location on the project web site.    
Each item on the cross reference page must be a hyperlink to the associated item with the web site and 
include a description of what the link is going to show.  Your web site must demonstrate the appropriate, 
relevant and functional use of each of the required features.    The cross-reference page must be accessible 
from the Home Page of the web site.  It must be part of the Project web site. 
The cross-reference page should be the last thing completed by you.  Note: When submitting a copy of
the completed web project to the business or organization, remove the link to the cross reference page.  
The link to the cross reference page is only required for the copy of the web project that is submitted to me 
for marking purposes.  
 
2.3   Web Site Design  

It is important for you to develop a flow of the web site.  
The flow essentially refers to how a user will navigate through the site – how the pages will link to each other.  
  Once you have a good idea of how the web site will be navigated, you can begin to detail how each component 
will be designed as well as decide on the information and data that will be required and processed by this application. 
 HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Multimedia and JavaScript are the Minimum Requirements Features  Note:  
The location of these features must be mapped to the X- reference page. 
 


2.3.1   HTML5 Minimum Requirements Features 


a) Implement HTML5 structural elements, including header groups to group html headers. 

b) Use of anchor references. 

c) Links to appropriate resources, additional info ... pertaining to the nature of the business. 

d) Use of hotspots, image maps or bookmarks to skip to a location on a given page, as well as to another 
page on your site and to an external related web site(s). 

e) Insert inline images and line breaks. 

f) Mark page headings, paragraphs, block quotes and addresses appropriately. 

g) Create appropriate ordered, unordered and description lists. 

h) Insert special characters from extended character sets. 

i) Implement HTML5 meta character set, meta name as author and content with the business name, 
meta name as description and content describing the nature of the business in one short simple 
sentence, meta name as keywords and content with at least five keywords that would describe the 
nature of the business in words. 

j) Your home page must have a footer when the web site was last updated or modified.  
 

2.3.2   Cascading Style Sheets Minimum Requirements Features 


a) Create one example on your home page that would show that you know how to style a single 
element using an inline style for your first h1 heading on your home page. 

b) Style your home page using embedded style sheet. 

c) For the remaining pages create styles using external CSS file(s). 

d) Use CSS3 to format the appearance of paragraphs, lists, headers, background images, tables, 
forms.  Use the following CSS3 contextual selectors (e1, e2, e3; e  f; e > f; e + f) in your web pages. 

e) Use of CSS3 styles for color (RGBA & HSLA) and show one instance of progressive enhancement for colors. 

f) Use of CSS3 styles to format the appearance of web pages text, including at least the following: 
font-family, font-size, kerning, tracking, leading, text-indent, font-weight, font-style, text-decoration,
 text-transform and font-variant. 

g) Use of the following pseudo-classes to highlight hyperlinks states of link, visited, active, hover; 
focus pseudo-classes and one appropriate structural pseudo-class. 

h) Use of CSS3 background styles (background size, background-clip, backgroundorigin, padding, 
margins, borders, use of an appropriate border style, use of rounded corners and the use of an outline style. 

i) Your home page should have a drop cap created with CSS3. 

j) Define document content with the class and id properties and create styles for them. 
Page 7 of 12 Web Presence Project 

k) Mark document content with the <div> and <span> tags and create styles for them. 

l) Use cascading styles to control page layout by using float attribute and positioning. 

m) Use of a Web Font. 

n) Use of CSS3 text and box shadows. 

o) Use of CSS3 transform rotate feature. 

p) Use of CSS3 opacity applied to two images to appear semi-transparent. 
 

2.3.3   Web Form Minimum Required Features 


a) Use of appropriate form elements including some of the new HTML5 form elements. 

b) Apply appropriate styles to Web Forms. 

c) Validate form data using the required attribute. 

d) Apply inline form validation by using the focus pseudo-class to appropriate form elements. 
 

2.3.4 Multimedia Minimum Required Features 


a) Use of <object> tag to enhance a web page with sound and video. 
 

2.3.5   Creating a Well-Formed, Valid Document 


a) Your home page should be well formed, valid web page under either transitional, strict XHTML DTD or HTML5. 
 

2.3.6   JavaScript Minimum Required Features 


a) Use of variables, arithmetic, comparison and logical operators, subroutines, functions, arrays, conditional 
statements, conditional operators, running time commands with system clock. 

b) Display system date on the home page of the web site. 

c) Validating form input by using appropriate JavaScript functions. 

d) Use of JavaScript alerts for validation purposes. 
 

2.4   Web Project Documentation  


You must include in your web project documentation the following elements in pdf format. 


Front page (with names of team members, title, course name and date) 

A paragraph entailing the business statement in about 100 words. 

The project objectives and a project description clearly and precisely stated. 

Include a site map/schematic diagram of the entire web project with dependency tree supported with documentation 
of application flow and functionality that is clear, precise and concise.  

Use of Visio or other similar tools is encouraged for professional look to your schematic diagram.
    
MUST include a “Read Me First” text file to be placed outside your root folder, which explains how the 
user would navigate the web site, usually starting from the index page.  

Explain how the business would benefit
 from the web project created in about 100 words.  

Any other relevant documentation pertaining to your site 
that you wish to include. 

Note:  If the documentation is clearly written, you may impress the company to 
whom you demonstrate your web project, as well as, potential employers. 
 

2.4   Demonstration Evaluation Form  


You are required to prepare an evaluation form that would be suitable for personnel of the Company to complete.  
The evaluation form should include opportunities for feedback on your prototype design, its usefulness, 
your demonstration skills and the business personnel’s overall impression of the prototype and demonstration. 

This form is to be completed by personnel of the Company once the demonstration has taken place.  

Ensure that all required features of the project continue to work on the web project.  

Do not alter the basics of the deliverables for the project based on the feedback of the Company. 
 

2.6   Extended Features (Optional)  


What are extended features? 

The extended features are what will make your web page stand out from the others. 

This is also important for you if you want to impress employers. 

These features will be unique ones that you research and choose. 

They can be whatever you want. 

They do not have to be components that you add to your web page but anything extra you may add to the project. ? 

What will extended features do for the project? Extended features can be included to allow you to achieve a higher grade.
Project marks for extended features are given to encourage self - directed learning. So, do not ask the Instructor(s) 
to show you how to do it! If you feel inclined to ask an instructor how to implement an extended feature, 
you cannot receive credit for using that feature. Extended Features cannot be considered for evaluation if 
required features are missing or not working.  Specifically, you must achieve a minimum of 90% on the required 
features before any consideration will be given for bonus marks for extended features. 

Important Note to Students Repeated use of any feature counts as one occurrence - one extended feature. 

All required features of the project must be met before extended features wi1l be considered during the 
evaluation process.  
 
More on Extended Features If you are going to implement extended features in your project, 
a minimum of three (3) extended features are required in order to achieve any bonus marks.  

You are required to understand each and every one of the three extended features that has been implemented 

– the instructor will require you to explain how each of the extended features has been implemented and 

why those extended features were chosen.  

Additionally, all of the 3 extended features must be fully functional before any consideration will 

be given for awarding any bonus marks. 
 
All extended features included in the project must be relevant to the application you are creating. 

For instance, password protecting a web site that isn't context sensitive would limit access without any reason. 
However, password protecting a page on the web site that customers use to view their account information 
would be relevant.  
 
Extended Features are included within this web presence project and used as a requirement to 
achieve a higher grade for a multitude of reasons, not the least of which is that it requires 
you to learn a new component/technology in order to implement the feature.  
 
Remember, in the work place to do only what is required will not make you stand out to your supervisors.  
To do more than the minimum is what makes you, as an employee, outstanding.  
The same is true as a student.  Do more than what is expected by the instructor and you can be 
rewarded with higher marks for your efforts. 
 
? Extended features for the project will NOT be considered from the following sources: 
Anything that can be accomplished using any kinds of wizards (if completed using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and 
not covered in the curriculum is acceptable) nor anything that is spelled out in any of your required or 
recommended text books or lecture notes or class discussion material.  
Extras chosen by you should be original and beyond the scope of the instructional material.  
In the event you are enhancing an existing web site, any features already implemented previously, 
i.e. prior to you starting on improving or enhancing the web site will not be considered for credit 
for extended features.   
 
Note:  All extended features must be approved by the instructor before work commences for marks to be awarded. 
 

2.7 Deliverable Submission 

 
2.7.1 Guidelines for Submission 
 
a) All deliverable must be placed on to a USB.  Create a folder, with your Last Name & First Name.  
On the outside of this folder you MUST place your Read Me First Text File, where the first 
line in this file is your Last Name, First Name and your student ID.  Briefly explain how a user would 
navigate your web site.  You are also required to place your index.html file, outside your folder 
 
NOTE: For consistency please ensure your home page is named index.html and not anything else. 
 
b) Ensure that your cross reference page is clearly numbered, e.g., 2.3.1 

d) and hyperlinks correctly to various parts of the project.  This is KEY!! 
 
c) The entire project submission is on your USB.   
 

2.7.2    Web Presence Style Guidelines for deliverables 
 

a) Introduction  
 
The purpose of this document is to give you the expected minimum style and appearance for your documentation
in H/XTML format. The details included here are to assist you in the presentation of a professional 
documentation in H/XTML.  While there is no standard form for documentation, these guidelines will 
assist you in presenting your material in the best possible format.  
 
b) Fonts  A serif font, Tahoma, size 10 point should be used for all body text, headings and diagrams. 
Do not combine bold and underline font attributes on the same piece of text.  
 
c) Tables  In general, tables should use the same page space as the body of the document. 
Shading of the heading row is not required but, if used, should not exceed 10% shading. 
More shading than that and the text within become difficult to read upon reproduction. 
The text in the heading row should be bolded and centered. 
The data in the remaining rows can be centered or left justified.  
Do not use tables for a complete page layout; preference would be to use CSS. 
A sample table is below:  
 
Product Product Number Manufacturer LaserJet 8NNN printer 165-6548-8454-645 
Hewlett – Packard Microsoft Word 2013 548-88-7744-5452 Microsoft 
 
 
d) Abbreviations  For abbreviations or acronyms, use the full version of the word the first time 
with the abbreviation or acronym in brackets.  Every following occurrence, use the abbreviation 
or acronym. For example, Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) is the basic language of web design and development. 
 
e) Bibliography  A complete bibliography MUST be used for all references used in the documentation.  
Failure to provide a complete bibliography would result in a FAIL grade of the project, 
as well as, academic dishonesty (Refer to course outline on TRU policy on academic honesty). 
The recommended format is:  Author's Name, Title of Book. Publisher, Location of Publication, 
Publication Date. ISBN  Bolles, Richard Nelson, What Color is Your Parachute ? Ten Speed Press, 
Berkeley, California, 1996. ISBN 123-324-5556-6666  Resources other than books may be identified. 
These include magazines, and Web sites. The format to follow for these is below:  
Magazine Author's name, "Article name," Magazine Title (Date): page numbers.  
 
Web sites  Site Address (URL)